README.md, before:

# IcarusRealTimeModTool
Realtime find and replace approach to modifying the game Icarus

# Why use this?
- There is no longer a need to distribute PAK files of your mods per Icarus game releases. No matter when the Icarus game updates are released, this will always work.
- No more merging your "modded content" with new game releases with different versions of your json updates. The system does game modding in real-time, any time you run the ModGame.ps1 script.
- It's fast. Runs on top of Microsoft .Net Framework.
- It's safe. The code is simple and clearly commented with no surprises.
- It's easy to use. Find stuff you want to change, make a json block that uses one of the find/replace mechanisms and this system does the heavy lifting for you as a mod creator and your clients.
- If this system is used, it will work with many mods. The mod files would just be placed in the game root directory, and the system puts them all together in real-time.
- It can be easily integrated with other scripts or launching mechanisms.

# How does it work?
- The system looks in the game root directory for any `mod_*.json` config files, which tell this system how to mod the game.
   - Yes, it supports many `mod_*.json` files (example: `mod_MyCoolMod.json`, `mod_YourCoolMod.json`, `mod_TheirCoolMod.json`, etc.)
- Per the config data, it will find and replace all targets in the UNPACKED `[Icarus_game_directory]\Icarus\Content\Data\data.pak` json files (see below for more info)
   - It currently supports 2 types of find and replace: `ReplaceAll` and `ReplaceTarget`
- It does all work in `[Icarus_game_directory]\TEMPModsPackage` directory.
- After the mods are done, a file called `Modpack_P.pak` is placed in `[Icarus_game_directory]\Icarus\Content\Paks\mods\` directory.
   - This is a full repack of the original Icarus game data.pak file.
- The TEMPModsPackage is purposefully left in the game root directory, so mod developers can review the json file game updates.

# Example config (also provided in this repo)
```
[
    {
       "Desc":"Remove all negative experience values",
       "Type":"ReplaceAll",
       "Path":"",
       "Index":"",
       "Find":"Experience_+%\\\")\": -",
       "Replace":"Experience_+%\\\")\": "
    },
    {
       "Desc":"Remove a specfic negative movement speed value",
       "Type":"ReplaceTarget",
       "Path":"Modifiers\\D_ModifierStates.json",
       "Index":"DamageOverTime_Physical",
       "Find":"BaseMovementSpeed_+\\\")\": -",
       "Replace":"BaseMovementSpeed_+\\\")\": "
    }
]
```

# ReplaceAll
- This will find (using the `Find` string value) and replace (using the `Replace` string value) across ALL game data json files.

# ReplaceTarget
- Using `Path`, the system locates this file target, searches for `Index` string, then finds the closest `Find` string value and replaces it with the `Replace` string value.

# Json Escape characters
- You must escape certain characters in your `mod_*.json` files, or the system will fail. The following examples are listed in the above `Example config` section.
   - Examples:
   - Back slash: `\\` = `\`
   - Double quotes: `\"` = `"`
- In other words: If you find something like `Experience_+%")": -10` in some game data json file, it needs to be put in the mod config file as `Experience_+%\\\")\": -10`.
- Search around the internet for Powershell Escape characters.

# How to install
1. Install game Icarus (probably through Steam)
2. Copy all of files from this repo to the root game directory (example: D:\SteamLibrary\steamapps\common\Icarus)
3. Set up your PC to be able to run Powershell scripts: Run `cmd.exe` -> execute: `powershell Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`
4. From the Icarus game directory, run: `ModGame.ps1`

# Support the developer
---
If you would like to support development of this software, you can contribute with a donation by clicking on the Donate Icon below. Thank you for your support!

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=PXV8MLB5KR5WG)


This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
  - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

Commit message:

Add base script and example mod_MyCoolMod.json config file

README.md, after:

# IcarusRealTimeModTool
Realtime find and replace approach to modifying the game Icarus

# Why use this?
- There is no longer a need to distribute PAK files of your mods per Icarus game releases. No matter when the Icarus game updates are released, this will always work.
- No more merging your "modded content" with new game releases with different versions of your json updates. The system does game modding in real-time, any time you run the ModGame.ps1 script.
- It's fast. Runs on top of Microsoft .Net Framework.
- It's safe. The code is simple and clearly commented with no surprises.
- It's easy to use. Find stuff you want to change, make a json block that uses one of the find/replace mechanisms and this system does the heavy lifting for you as a mod creator and your clients.
- If this system is used, it will work with many mods. The mod files would just be placed in the game root directory, and the system puts them all together in real-time.
- It can be easily integrated with other scripts or launching mechanisms.

# How does it work?
- The system looks in the game root directory for any `mod_*.json` config files, which tell this system how to mod the game.
   - Yes, it supports many `mod_*.json` files (example: `mod_MyCoolMod.json`, `mod_YourCoolMod.json`, `mod_TheirCoolMod.json`, etc.)
- Per the config data, it will find and replace all targets in the UNPACKED `[Icarus_game_directory]\Icarus\Content\Data\data.pak` json files (see below for more info)
   - It currently supports 2 types of find and replace: `ReplaceAll` and `ReplaceTarget`
- It does all work in `[Icarus_game_directory]\TEMPModsPackage` directory.
- After the mods are done, a file called `Modpack_P.pak` is placed in `[Icarus_game_directory]\Icarus\Content\Paks\mods\` directory.
   - This is a full repack of the original Icarus game data.pak file.
- The TEMPModsPackage is purposefully left in the game root directory, so mod developers can review the json file game updates.

# Example config (also provided in this repo)
```
[
    {
       "Desc":"Remove all negative experience values",
       "Type":"ReplaceAll",
       "Path":"",
       "Index":"",
       "Find":"Experience_+%\\\")\": -",
       "Replace":"Experience_+%\\\")\": "
    },
    {
       "Desc":"Remove a specfic negative movement speed value",
       "Type":"ReplaceTarget",
       "Path":"Modifiers\\D_ModifierStates.json",
       "Index":"DamageOverTime_Physical",
       "Find":"BaseMovementSpeed_+\\\")\": -",
       "Replace":"BaseMovementSpeed_+\\\")\": "
    }
]
```

# ReplaceAll
- This will find (using the `Find` string value) and replace (using the `Replace` string value) across ALL game data json files.

# ReplaceTarget
- Using `Path`, the system locates this file target, searches for `Index` string, then finds the closest `Find` string value and replaces it with the `Replace` string value.

# Json Escape characters
- You must escape certain characters in your `mod_*.json` files, or the system will fail. The following examples are listed in the above `Example config` section.
   - Examples:
   - Back slash: `\\` = `\`
   - Double quotes: `\"` = `"`
- In other words: If you find something like `Experience_+%")": -10` in some game data json file, it needs to be put in the mod config file as `Experience_+%\\\")\": -10`.
- Search around the internet for Powershell Escape characters.

# How to install
1. Install game Icarus (probably through Steam)
2. Copy 2 files from this repo (`ModGame.ps1` and `mod_MyCoolMod.json`) to the root game directory (example: D:\SteamLibrary\steamapps\common\Icarus)
	- The script will download any missing components.
3. Set up your PC to be able to run Powershell scripts: Run `cmd.exe` -> execute: `powershell Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned`
4. From the Icarus game directory, run: `ModGame.ps1`

# Support the developer
---
If you would like to support development of this software, you can contribute with a donation by clicking on the Donate Icon below. Thank you for your support!

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=PXV8MLB5KR5WG)


This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
  - https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/
